most people know that fruits and
vegetables contain antioxidants but did
you know that whole grains are often
even better source of these key
nutrients and the key word is whole
highly processed foods like most breads
and crackers and cookies and pastas and
pastries can lead to weight gain and
inflammation eat whole grains instead
whole grains can actually help you
control your weight lower blood pressure
and lower your risk for diabetes and
Stroke today I'm adding whole grains to
my easy and filling pasta fagioli it
Shep and be approved and coming up later
in the show today I'm making pasta e
fagioli or pasta and bean soup it's a
very quick easy one-pot recipe I think
you're going to love and it's so simple
watch this is a fennel bulb these are
fennel fronds and you can eat the whole
thing and I'm going to use the fronds
for garnish and the bulb just like it
was celery in fact it's a lot like
celery except it's a little sweeter you
just take the ribs off those are ribs
just like celery ribs and then you
divide the fennel bulb in half and take
out the little bit of root that's there
because that's kind of bitter and hard
to digest and then you just dice it this
is going to be that flavor in the broth
that the pasta our food is medicine
ingredient is going to absorb so I'm
just going to add this to the fennel I
already chopped and we're going to go to
the stove and saute this just so it
softens I'll add a little bit of olive
oil and then the fennel it's going to
soften and now we'll do our garlic turn
the head of garlic down press with the
heel of your hand now I'm going to
release the antioxidant in the garlic
clove just by smashing it the skin comes
off and Allison the chemical that makes
garlic smell like garlic and gives its
antioxidant power is released you only
need a couple of cloves of garlic for
this I like to cream the garlic because
you get the most flavor and
the most Alison out of it which of
course is the active chemical that helps
reduce stiffening and hardening of the
arteries I'm just going to scoop this
into the fennel which is already
sauteing we're going to add our
vegetable broth and whole wheat and the
pasta is going to suck up the flavor of
the vegetable broth the flavor of the
fennel and the flavor of the garlic and
now we have the rest of our favorite
ingredients diced roasted organic
Tomatoes some organic frozen peas
organic navy beans rich in protein good
vegetable juice I like to add a few
extra red pepper flakes I already have
one made though beautiful feta cheese
right on top and the leaves of the
fennel plant right on top for the
complete recipe check out our website
and remember the Fountain of Youth
starts in the kitchen shintani may you
live a hundred years for chef md I'm dr.
Donna liPuma dr. John liPuma
professionally trained chef an internist
appears courtesy of Chef md.com visit
chef md online to learn more